---
layout: page
title: Network setup
date: 2024-02-26 00:01 +0100
categories: Hardware Network
table_attrs:
  router: ASUS AX88U
  switch: Unifi USW-Flex-XG
---

# Hardware
{% include table_attributes.html %}

## Why?

I have never liked the modems / routers given by internet service providers, for a few reasons.
- Wifi performance was mediocre at best
- Backdoors present for the provider to get into the network
- Customization options are limited

The first reason alone would be reason enough to replace or extend the ISP provided hardware with my own hardware. Me being the nerd I am and with my incessant need to customize everything, I've always made the ISP provided modems 'dumb' and just put them in bridge mode, so all traffic is just forwarded to my own router, on my own router I have a lot more control over what comes in, what goes out and control my own wifi signal. The ASUS firmware on my AX88U is pretty good, but I have flashed it with [Asuswrt-merlin](https://www.asuswrt-merlin.net/). A modified version of ASUS's original firmware, with a focus on tweaks and fixes, giving my AX88U just that little more options.

## The switch?
Yes, that switch...as of February 2024, it's a new addition to my network. A 10GBe switch. My [desktop](/posts/desktop/) already supported 10GBe networking, so when I gave my [server](/posts/server/) an upgrade I made sure to include a 10GBe NIC. Both my desktop and server are now connected to the switch, so they can talk to each other with blazing speed. This is completely overkill, but it's more fun stuff to play with and I have now found out that 10GBe networking brings its' own challenges and limitations with it, but it's fun to play with (and seeing 1GB/s on a file copy dialog does things to me 👀).
