---
layout: post
title: GMMK Pro
date: 2024-01-11 00:05 +0100
categories: Hardware Keyboards
# Attributes for include
table_attrs:
  switches: BSUN X
  keycaps: GMK Awakening
  size: 75%
  stabilizers: Owlab V2
  firmware: VIAL (QMK)
  ZZ_extra_info: Tape mod (double layer), PE foam underneath and on top of PCB
---

# GMMK Pro
{% include table_attributes.html %}

## VIAL support
I already had a customized keymap, made through QMK, but I wanted VIAL support for awesome realtime keymap changing without flashing.
VIAL now supports the GMMK Pro out of the box, so I checked out the VIAL repo through WSL on my Windows 11 machine, replaced the default VIAL keymap with my own customized QMK keymap, compiled it and then flashed it through qmk Toolbox. Worked immediately! The only thing that didn't work was my customized settings for the knob, which had 3 different behaviors based on which modifiers (or none) were pressed. I fixed that by changing the functionality of the knob on different layers with a MO switch to swap to a layer when holding a button. VIAL is awesome!

### How do?
You're going to need to have git installed to check out the qmk-vial repo and a dev environment to compile the firmware. I believe it's doable on Windows, but I would suggest using either Linux or use WSL. I used WSL and it worked flawlessly.
If you know what you're doing, here is a short version of the steps required. I'll go into more detail below

<details>
  <summary>Short version</summary>

  1. Check out repo
  2. Make keymap *(optional)*
  3. Compile
  4. Put keyboard in bootloader mode
  5. Flash firmware with qmk toolbox
  6. Go to [the VIAL webpage](https://vial.rocks) and make your keymap
  7. Changes are applied immediately
  8. Enjoy your keyboard!
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Long version</summary>

  #### Check out repo
  Do it

  #### Make keymap *(optional)*
  #### Compile
  #### Put keyboard in bootloader mode
  #### Flash firmware with qmk toolbox
  #### Go to [the VIAL webpage](https://vial.rocks) and make your keymap
  #### Changes are applied immediately
  #### Enjoy your keyboard!
</details>
